@metadata title=Message Types
@metadata order=10
@metadata tagstring=message types

# PyLabs Message Types

The types of PyLabs messages are shown below.

[[children/]]

The base message is used as a basis for all specific messages.
Below is a brief overview on the different types of PyLabs messages. Click on the links above for a more detailed description.


## Log Message

They are generated by applications running in the SSO. For example through the PyLabs Log Handler.
Each log message has a level that identifies how important the message is. This also allows the message to be filtered at multiple locations.
Can be a generic log message coming from a program. For example through "log q.system.process.execute(<command>)".


## Error Condition Message

Error condition messages are created by the monitoring tasklet or the application.

Examples of error messages are:
* Bug in an application (a raised error by PyLabs).
* CPU overloaded (detected by the monitoring tasklet) .
* Disk full (over 90%).

Optional tags that can be used:
* Application GUID.
* Virtual machine GUID.
* Physical machine GUID.
* Job GUID.
* Error condition type ID.

[[note]]
**Note** 
Each error condition has an 'errorconditiontypeid' used to identify the nature of the error (e.g. bug or CPU overloaded). A list of error condition types needs to be put together and kept in central database, where for each error condition type there is a description, tags and such.
[[/note]]


## Job Message

The job message logs all actions being executed such as the calls of the cloud API and actor API.

The type of information it includes is:

* What call was done on which object.
* Who called for the action. For example, the user GUID or application GUID.
* The parameters used to start the call.
* Unique GUID for the job.
* The status of the job.
* The result message of the job.


## Pymodel Update Message

The Pymodel update message sends a changed Pymodel message to a robot which will deal with the Pymodel object and, for example, store it in a database, forward it to another system or execute business logic.

Tags that are used:
* User.
* Password (optional).
* Domain name (each Pymodel object lives in a domain with a specific unique name).
* Category (e.g. machine).
* State (e.g. new/delete/modified).


## RPC Message

The RPC message is the only message used for real time (or as close as possible to real time) behavior.

The information it contains is:
* User.
* Password (optional).
* Domain name (each Pymodel object lives in a domain with a specific unique name).
* Category (e.g. machine).
* Method name (e.g. start).
* Params in body of message, is json representation of dict of params (params dict like used in tasklets)